---
layout: post
title: Quick and Dirty HTML inyo
---

## Two files and a shell command

An inyo can be called with a single line in the shell... but if your html is anything more than braindead simple, it's better to break out the html into a seperate file. A html inyo can be created with two files - the html file, a JXA "stub" file and a shell command to invoke it.

* the html file will hold all of the inyo display/logic code (note: this can be broken into multiple files - this example combines the style, script and html into a single file).
* a "JXA" file that defines the application to call, the method and any associated options/parameters.
* the `osascript` shell command which will execute the javascript (JXA) file.

<!--more-->

### The shell command

`osascript -l JavaScript ~/projects/inyos/execclick.js`  `osascript` executes the listed file using the `-l JavaScript` option indicating JXA for AppleScript.

### The contents of `execclick.js`

This file is AppleScript in JXA form. This equivalent to the AppleScript `tell application Inyo to html "~/projects/inyos/execclick.js" block false...` (followed by the set of options).

```javascript
params = {
  block: false,
  opacity: 60,
  color: "red",
  height: "70",
  width: "50",
  left: "100px",
  mousefocus: true,
  focus: true,
  move: true
}
Application('Inyo').html("~/projects/inyos/execclick.html", params, {timeout: 40000})
```

Inyo's `html` method is called with the file `execclick.html`. That file has everything that defines the inyo. Note: this could be combined with the file above - the HTML could be constucted in the javascript file and fed to Inyo's `html` method as a single variable. They are split here for clarity.
